== TextAngels.org

As people increasingly use text messaging for communication, TextAngels.org provides a text messaging based solution for the Teen Help Lines of the world. We are open sourcing the software in the hopes of reaching and helping as many people as possible.

== Goal

The goal is to provide an open source platform the organizations can use for supporting people who need anonymous assistance. The target organizations generally fall within the Teen Help Line, Alcoholics Anonymous, Depression, etc types of groups.

Using the Twilio API, we are able to provide a platform for managing communication between those in need and the people willing to help, while keeping it entirely anonymous.

The participation of developers, designers, group organizers and business leaders is required to make this a reality. If you have time or knowledge, please contact us to contribute. Your help can save lives.

== From humble beginnings

TextAngels.org was built in 5 hours at the TwilioCon 2012 hackathon by Jeremy Baker, the developer, and Chad Sakonchick, the Designer / Copywriter. Having no idea what to build when arriving, they decided to work on an idea that could actually make a difference in people's lives. 5 hours later, TextAngels.org was live and functional.

== How does it work?

Someone texts a provided helpline. Request is sent to multiple Angels, first to pick up helps via text or web interface. Conversation happens.

== How are Angels verified?

Right now, we're just using Facebook to authenticate Angels with their real identity. However, the goal is to actually have a validation process for Angels. Also, if this is deployed to established help systems, they could assign accounts to their support staff that have passed their own validation process.

=== Sample Validation Process

Once an Angel signs up, they will be asked a few simple verification questions at random intervals over the next few days. Assuming they answer all verification questions, they will be told they are accepted. Over the next few weeks a mixture of bots and Verified Angels will send in mock requests. Verification Questions and Mock Requests will be audited, assuming Angel passes audit, they will begin to receive real requests.

== How can existing helplines use it?

The code that currently exists is very rough, so there is some technical knowledge required in order to launch your own version of TextAngels.org. We are considering hosted vs distrubuted solutions and are very open to input.

To launch a version of the software, we currently recommend that you check out the source from github and the deploy it to heroku. You will need to setup a facebook application and a twilio account and application. We should provide tutorials on both of these steps one day.

== Contributing

This project will not survive without contributions from people like you.

For code contributions, please fork the project and send a pull request for your changes.

For knowledge contributions, you can either contact us directly or modify the GitHub Wiki page to add your thoughts.

For any other contribution, please contact us directly.

== License

Copyright (c) 2012 Jeremy Baker

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
